---
title: Journey To The Great Country of China   Huawei Global ICT Competition
date: 2023-06-02
---

> “There is a world elsewhere” - Shakespeare

Embarking on a journey to check off an item from my bucket list has been
nothing short of incredible. As I share my experiences, stories, and insights
in this blog, I invite you to join me on this extraordinary quest, where dreams
become reality, and life is enriched with unforgettable moments.

### How Did We Get Here?

I have always been passionate about making a difference in the healthcare
field, and my project on aiding patients with cardiovascular disease was born
out of that passion. The statistics were alarming, with cardiovascular diseases
claiming so many lives each year. I knew I had to do something to help.

In the halls of JKUAT, our annual Tech Expo was a highly anticipated event. It
provided a platform for students to showcase their projects and potentially win
substantial prizes. With the hope of securing funds to further develop our
project, I approached my friend Anne Kariithi, the CEO of ICMS. Together, we
worked tirelessly to create a prototype that could aid cardiovascular patients.

At the Tech Expo, our hopes were high, but unfortunately, our application
didn't function as expected. Despite this setback, we were grateful for the
opportunity to demonstrate our prototype. Although we didn't win any prizes,
the experience was invaluable. Anne cherished her first participation in the
event and vowed to give it another shot before completing her undergraduate
studies. For me, it was bittersweet, as it marked my final dance at the Tech
Expo.

Months later, Mr Philip Oyier, one of the ICT teachers, approached us with an
unexpected opportunity - the Huawei ICT competitions. Initially, I was
sceptical, unsure if it would truly benefit us. However, we decided to give it
a try, believing that there was no harm in seizing the opportunity. We
registered for the competition with our cardiovascular aid product, with the
regional finals four months away, providing ample time for preparation. We also
added one member to the team Patrick Kisio, with a clinical medicine background.

<Image
  src="/blogs/medium/919808_image0.jpg"
  width={800}
  height={800}
  className="mx-auto my-6 rounded-sm"
  alt="Image"
/>
<p className="text-center text-sm text-gray-500 dark:text-gray-400 italic">
  Patrick Kisio, Anne Kariithi and myself
</p>

As the Huawei national award ceremony unfolded, we watched as students from the
Networking, Computing, and Cloud track celebrated their triumph at the national
competition. Our patrons, Mr Philip Oyier, Vanessa Ireri, and Michael Kamu,
inspired us, emphasizing that we could achieve the same if we emerged
victorious at the regional finals. The prospect of a fully sponsored trip to
China for the global finals became our motivation, and the baton of
responsibility had been passed to us.

<Image
  src="/blogs/medium/919808_image1.jpg"
  width={800}
  height={800}
  className="mx-auto my-6 rounded-sm"
  alt="Image"
/>
<p className="text-center text-sm text-gray-500 dark:text-gray-400 italic">
  Huawei Kenya award ceremony
</p>

With the guidance of the Huawei offices and the unwavering support of Michael
Kamau and Vanessa Ireri, we invested countless hours in refining our
presentation. The regional competition arrived, and we confidently stood before
the judges, delivering our ideas with precision. Our preparation paid off, and
the judges took notice of our organization and dedication. When the results
were announced, we were ecstatic to hear our names called as winners,
surpassing tough competition from the Nigerian team.

<Image
  src="/blogs/medium/919808_image2.jpg"
  width={800}
  height={800}
  className="mx-auto my-6 rounded-sm"
  alt="Image"
/>
<p className="text-center text-sm text-gray-500 dark:text-gray-400 italic">
  During the regional competition at Huawei Kenya offices
</p>

We had done it. Our victory secured our ticket to China for the global finals.
It was a moment of immense pride and joy, knowing that our hard work and
determination had paid off. The world awaited our project, and we were ready to
take on the challenge, fueled by the opportunity Huawei had bestowed upon us.

### Preparations to China

The day had finally arrived for me to embark on a journey to a foreign land.
Excitement coursed through my veins as I prepared for my visa appointment. I
meticulously reviewed the visa application, ensuring that I had all the
necessary documents and information. The instructions were clear, and I made a
mental note to arrive early on the appointment day to avoid the expected long
queues and lengthy processing times. Additionally, I double-checked that I had
my yellow fever vaccination certificate, a requirement for entry.

As the weekend approached, an unexpected opportunity presented itself. Huawei,
in collaboration with the ICT ministry, had organized a special meeting with
the esteemed Prime CS, Hon Musalia Mudavadi, at his offices. The purpose of the
meeting was to wish us well on our journey and express our hopes for our
success, ultimately making Kenya proud. The Prime CS spoke passionately about
the government's vision to digitize numerous services and integrate ICT
throughout the governmental systems. It was evident that they had a clear goal
in mind, but the exact implementation details seemed to elude them.

<Image
  src="/blogs/medium/919808_image3.jpg"
  width={800}
  height={800}
  className="mx-auto my-6 rounded-sm"
  alt="Image"
/>
<p className="text-center text-sm text-gray-500 dark:text-gray-400 italic">
  Send off by the Prime CS Hon Musalia Mudavadi
</p>

Listening attentively to the Prime CS's words, I couldn't help but feel a
sense of responsibility and excitement. Being part of a generation that would
witness and contribute to the digital transformation of our country was a
privilege. The meeting not only reinforced my commitment to my journey but also
reminded me of the larger context in which it was taking place. We were not
just embarking on a personal adventure but were also carrying the hopes and
aspirations of a nation that sought progress through technology.

With the encouragement and well wishes from the Prime CS, Huawei, and the ICT
ministry, we set off on the journey, determined to make the most of the
opportunities that awaited me. As I boarded the plane, the words of the Prime
CS echoed in my mind, fueling my motivation and igniting my passion for
technology and innovation. I knew that the path ahead would not be without
challenges, but I was ready to embrace them and contribute to the realization
of Kenya's vision for a digitally empowered future.

The “how” may have been missing during that meeting, but as I embarked on
this adventure, I vowed to become part of the solution, to bridge the gap
between vision and implementation, and to pave the way for a future where
technology would empower and transform the lives of Kenyans. With my heart
filled with hope and determination, I eagerly awaited the destination that
would unfold before me, ready to make a difference in my small way.

### China

<Image
  src="/blogs/medium/919808_image4.jpg"
  width={600}
  height={600}
  className="mx-auto my-6 rounded-sm"
  alt="Image"
/>

We embarked on our journey to China on the 28th of May 2023, with a brief
layover in Doha. Although our time in Doha would be elaborated on during the
return flight, we continued our onward journey to China. Stepping off the
plane, we were immediately greeted by sweltering heat, a stark contrast to the
temperate climate of Nairobi. The weather was cloudy, yet the surface
temperatures were remarkably high. Wearing a jumper seemed nonsensical in this
new environment. After going through immigration, we made our way to the hotel,
eager to settle in and explore.

<Image
  src="/blogs/medium/919808_image5.jpg"
  width={600}
  height={600}
  className="mx-auto my-6 rounded-sm"
  alt="Image"
/>
<Image
  src="/blogs/medium/919808_image6.jpg"
  width={600}
  height={600}
  className="mx-auto my-6 rounded-sm"
  alt="Image"
/>
<p className="text-center text-sm text-gray-500 dark:text-gray-400 italic">
  Arrival in China
</p>

For our first dinner in China, we were served a variety of authentic Chinese
dishes. Initially, the food seemed unfamiliar and overwhelming, almost like a
culture shock. Many of us found it challenging to adapt to the flavours, and
some opted to eat only rice or skipped the meal altogether. It was an
adjustment, but we remained open-minded and willing to embrace the culinary
experiences that awaited us.

The following day began with a breakfast that offered some familiar foods from
back home, bringing a sense of comfort and nostalgia. Although the second day
was primarily a preparation day with no major activities, we took the
opportunity to gather together and receive instructions. It was also a chance
to get acquainted with the Southern African Region team, forging new
connections and expanding our network of fellow tech enthusiasts. As true
techies, we couldn't resist adding more shirts to our collection, proudly
representing our team.

<Image
  src="/blogs/medium/919808_image7.jpg"
  width={600}
  height={600}
  className="mx-auto my-6 rounded-sm"
  alt="Image"
/>
<Image
  src="/blogs/medium/919808_image8.jpg"
  width={600}
  height={600}
  className="mx-auto my-6 rounded-sm"
  alt="Image"
/>

In the evening, as the Network and Cloud teams focused on their exams, we
decided to take a leisurely walk around the city. Venturing out without a
translator, both in person and through apps, posed a unique challenge. We got
lost a few times, but as the saying goes, “kukosa njia ndio kujua njia”
(losing the way is how you learn the way). Eventually, we found our way back to
the hotel just in time for supper. Surprisingly, the food had begun to grow on
us. The flavours were more familiar, and we appreciated the nuanced tastes of
Chinese cuisine.

<Image
  src="/blogs/medium/919808_image9.jpg"
  width={600}
  height={600}
  className="mx-auto my-6 rounded-sm"
  alt="Image"
/>
<Image
  src="/blogs/medium/919808_image10.jpg"
  width={600}
  height={600}
  className="mx-auto my-6 rounded-sm"
  alt="Image"
/>
<Image
  src="/blogs/medium/919808_image11.jpg"
  width={600}
  height={600}
  className="mx-auto my-6 rounded-sm"
  alt="Image"
/>

As we savoured our meal, we reflected on our journey thus far. The initial
struggle to adapt to the food had transformed into an appreciation for the
unique flavours and culinary traditions of China. It was a reminder that
stepping out of our comfort zones and embracing new experiences could lead to
unexpected delights. With renewed enthusiasm, we eagerly anticipated the
adventures that awaited us in the coming days, ready to immerse ourselves in
the vibrant culture and technological wonders of China.

### Day 1 of The Competition

On the day of the Huawei competition, our team from Kenya arrived promptly at
the impressive Huawei Campus. Although it wasn't our turn to participate that
day, we were determined to show our support to the other teams competing in the
Networking and Cloud categories. As we entered the campus, we couldn't help
but marvel at its grandeur and technological sophistication. The Networking and
Cloud teams headed to their designated rooms, while we found a comfortable spot
in the foyer, ready to fine-tune our presentation and cheer on our fellow
participants.

<Image
  src="/blogs/medium/919808_image12.jpg"
  width={600}
  height={600}
  className="mx-auto my-6 rounded-sm"
  alt="Image"
/>
<Image
  src="/blogs/medium/919808_image13.jpg"
  width={600}
  height={600}
  className="mx-auto my-6 rounded-sm"
  alt="Image"
/>
<p className="text-center text-sm text-gray-500 dark:text-gray-400 italic">
  After registration
</p>

<Image
  src="/blogs/medium/919808_image14.jpg"
  width={600}
  height={600}
  className="mx-auto my-6 rounded-sm"
  alt="Image"
/>
<Image
  src="/blogs/medium/919808_image15.jpg"
  width={600}
  height={600}
  className="mx-auto my-6 rounded-sm"
  alt="Image"
/>
<p className="text-center text-sm text-gray-500 dark:text-gray-400 italic">
  The cloud and networking team doing their exams
</p>

<Image
  src="/blogs/medium/919808_image16.jpg"
  width={600}
  height={600}
  className="mx-auto my-6 rounded-sm"
  alt="Image"
/>

The atmosphere in the foyer was charged with excitement and anticipation. We
sat together, focused and determined, meticulously reviewing our slides and
rehearsing our delivery. The spirit of camaraderie was palpable as participants
from different countries exchanged encouraging words and shared insights. The
foyer became a hub of preparation and support, a space where diverse cultures
and technical expertise converged. We knew that although we weren't on stage
that day, our presence and enthusiasm played a vital role in fostering a sense
of unity among all the teams.

### Day 2 of The Competition

The day had finally arrived when all our hard work would be put to the test.
The judges held our fate in their hands, and our main agenda was to stay calm
and composed. As we watched other participants take the stage and defend their
projects, we couldn't help but notice the stark differences in the challenges
faced by first-world and third-world countries. However, this didn't deter us
from our ambition to win the grand prize. With each passing presentation, it
became increasingly evident that we had a strong chance of achieving our goal.
We delivered our presentation with confidence, addressing all the questions
posed by the judges. I felt a surge of happiness when one of the judges asked
us a question we had prepared for in advance: “Why does the LSTM model
perform poorly compared to the CNN model despite the data being time series?”

<Image
  src="/blogs/medium/919808_image17.jpg"
  width={600}
  height={600}
  className="mx-auto my-6 rounded-sm"
  alt="Image"
/>
<p className="text-center text-sm text-gray-500 dark:text-gray-400 italic">
  Anne presenting our solution
</p>

<Image
  src="/blogs/medium/919808_image18.jpg"
  width={600}
  height={600}
  className="mx-auto my-6 rounded-sm"
  alt="Image"
/>
<Image
  src="/blogs/medium/919808_image19.jpg"
  width={600}
  height={600}
  className="mx-auto my-6 rounded-sm"
  alt="Image"
/>

After our successful presentation, a sense of excitement filled the air, and I
couldn't wait to explore Shenzhen City. Together with my colleagues, we
ventured out and navigated the subway system, feeling a sense of accomplishment
as we arrived at the renowned electronics market, Huaqiangbei, without any
assistance. Since it was late, we didn't have much time for shopping, but my
colleagues managed to find iPhones at relatively lower prices compared to
Kenya. Eventually, we returned to the hotel, timing our arrival to coincide
with other team members to avoid raising suspicion.

<Image
  src="/blogs/medium/919808_image20.jpg"
  width={400}
  height={400}
  className="mx-auto my-6 rounded-sm"
  alt="Image"
/>
<Image
  src="/blogs/medium/919808_image21.jpg"
  width={400}
  height={400}
  className="mx-auto my-6 rounded-sm"
  alt="Image"
/>
<Image
  src="/blogs/medium/919808_image22.jpg"
  width={400}
  height={400}
  className="mx-auto my-6 rounded-sm"
  alt="Image"
/>

As we settled back into our rooms, a mix of anticipation and exhaustion washed
over us. We knew that regardless of the outcome, this journey had been a
transformative experience. We showcased our expertise, learned from other
participants, and explored a new city. The results were yet to be announced,
but we carried a sense of pride and accomplishment within us. With bated
breath, we eagerly awaited the final verdict, hoping that our hard work,
dedication, and well-prepared presentation would be rewarded with the ultimate
prize.

### Day 3

On our free day, we made the unanimous decision to revisit Huaqiangbei, this
time taking on the role of local tour guides. With great enthusiasm, we
gathered everyone and boarded the metro, ready for another adventure. As we
arrived at Huaqiangbei, some of us took the opportunity to withdraw money from
a nearby ATM, utilizing the convenience of our VISA cards. Once we had the
funds, we dispersed to explore according to our interests.

The sheer magnitude of Huaqiangbei left me astounded. It seemed like anything
and everything could be found within this bustling area. Numerous malls housed
a plethora of electronics shops, making it a haven for tech enthusiasts. As we
immersed ourselves in the vibrant atmosphere, we not only discovered a variety
of gadgets but also made new friends along the way. Before concluding our
visit, I made it a point to explore the nearby HCB Museum.

<Image
  src="/blogs/medium/919808_image23.jpg"
  width={400}
  height={400}
  className="mx-auto my-6 rounded-sm"
  alt="Image"
/>
<Image
  src="/blogs/medium/919808_image24.jpg"
  width={400}
  height={400}
  className="mx-auto my-6 rounded-sm"
  alt="Image"
/>
<Image
  src="/blogs/medium/919808_image25.jpg"
  width={400}
  height={400}
  className="mx-auto my-6 rounded-sm"
  alt="Image"
/>
<p className="text-center text-sm text-gray-500 dark:text-gray-400 italic">
  Inside the HCB Museum
</p>

<Image
  src="/blogs/medium/919808_image26.jpg"
  width={400}
  height={400}
  className="mx-auto my-6 rounded-sm"
  alt="Image"
/>
<p className="text-center text-sm text-gray-500 dark:text-gray-400 italic">
  Silicon wafer
</p>

Stepping into the museum, I was greeted by an awe-inspiring sight - the
largest PCB art I had ever seen. The intricate patterns and designs formed a
mesmerizing display, showcasing the creativity and technical prowess behind
these electronic components. Additionally, I had the privilege of observing a
silicon wafer, a tangible representation of the theoretical concepts we had
learned in school. It was a remarkable experience, bridging the gap between
classroom knowledge and real-world application.

Leaving Huaqiangbei, I couldn't help but reflect on the wealth of experiences
we had gained throughout our journey. From presenting our project to exploring
the bustling electronics market and delving into the fascinating world of
circuitry and technology, every moment had contributed to our personal growth
and broadened our horizons. With memories etched in our minds, we returned to
our hotel, ready to face the next phase of the competition with renewed
enthusiasm and a deeper appreciation for the wonders of technology.

### Final Day of the Competition

We had the chance to visit the Huawei Xi Village & Exhibition Hall Visit. The
Huawei XI Village is a hidden gem nestled amidst the picturesque landscapes of
rural China. This quaint village, untouched by the rapid pace of modernization,
captivated me with its serene charm and rich cultural heritage.

Upon arriving in Huawei Xi Village, I was immediately struck by its idyllic
setting. Surrounded by lush green fields, and meandering rivers, the village
exuded an air of tranquillity that instantly put me at ease. The traditional
architecture of the houses, with their intricate woodwork and vibrant red
lanterns, spoke volumes about the villagers' deep-rooted connection to their
past.

<Image
  src="/blogs/medium/919808_image27.jpg"
  width={400}
  height={400}
  className="mx-auto my-6 rounded-sm"
  alt="Image"
/>
<Image
  src="/blogs/medium/919808_image28.jpg"
  width={400}
  height={400}
  className="mx-auto my-6 rounded-sm"
  alt="Image"
/>
<p className="text-center text-sm text-gray-500 dark:text-gray-400 italic">
  Huawei XI Village
</p>

As I bid farewell to Huawei Xi Village, I couldn't help but feel grateful for
the opportunity to immerse myself in its tranquil beauty and cultural richness.
Huawei Xi Village truly deserves its place among the hidden treasures of China,
and I am privileged to have experienced its magic firsthand.

The exhibition hall was a testament to the vast chasm that separates our
current capabilities from the boundless potential of the future. The
mind-bending technologies showcased in the hall highlighted the immense
possibilities that lie ahead, but they also served as a humbling reminder of
how much further we have to go. As I left the exhibition hall, my mind brimming
with ideas and questions, I couldn't help but feel a renewed sense of
curiosity and determination. The visit had ignited a spark within me, pushing
me to contribute to the ongoing journey of progress, knowing that we still have
a long way to catch up.

We finally had the award ceremony where we managed to win the first prize. We
didn't get the grand prize but we live to fight for another day. Since we
were travelling on the same day we hurriedly went to the airport so that we
don't miss our flight

<Image
  src="/blogs/medium/919808_image29.jpg"
  width={400}
  height={400}
  className="mx-auto my-6 rounded-sm"
  alt="Image"
/>
<Image
  src="/blogs/medium/919808_image30.jpg"
  width={400}
  height={400}
  className="mx-auto my-6 rounded-sm"
  alt="Image"
/>
<p className="text-center text-sm text-gray-500 dark:text-gray-400 italic">
  Left, Southern Africa Team posing for a photo.
</p>

<Image
  src="/blogs/medium/919808_image31.jpg"
  width={400}
  height={400}
  className="mx-auto my-6 rounded-sm"
  alt="Image"
/>
<p className="text-center text-sm text-gray-500 dark:text-gray-400 italic">
  Team ICMS winning the First Prize
</p>

The whole experience in China was awesome. I would recommend it to any tech
person

### Doha

As our layover in Qatar began, we were filled with a mix of excitement and
curiosity. Stepping off the plane, we were greeted with warm desert air that
carried the promise of adventure. Armed with temporary visas, we embarked on a
whirlwind exploration of the surrounding areas.

Our first stop was the National Museum of Qatar, a true marvel of architectural
beauty. Its curvaceous design, inspired by the desert rose, captivated our
senses. Inside, we were immersed in the rich tapestry of Qatari history and
culture. From ancient artefacts to contemporary art installations, the museum
offered a window into the nation's past and present.

<Image
  src="/blogs/medium/919808_image32.jpg"
  width={400}
  height={400}
  className="mx-auto my-6 rounded-sm"
  alt="Image"
/>
<p className="text-center text-sm text-gray-500 dark:text-gray-400 italic">
  National Museum of Qatar
</p>

As we ventured through the exhibits, time seemed to melt away. The stories of
Qatar's resilience and progress unfolded before our eyes, leaving us in awe.
Each section of the museum seemed to have a story of its own, and we were
fortunate to witness them all.

Sadly, the moment arrived when we had to bid farewell to Qatar. With a parting
shot of the stunning skyline and a heart full of memories, we boarded our
flight back home. Our brief encounter with Qatar had left an indelible mark on
our souls, igniting a desire to return one day and dig deeper into the
treasures it held.

And so, as the plane took off, we carried the spirit of Qatar with us, forever
grateful for the serendipitous layover that allowed us to discover a world
within a layover.

> “It's a big world out there, it would be a shame not to experience
> it.” - J.D. Andrews

If you liked this article, click the👏 below so other people will see it here
on Medium.

Let's be friends on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/b1ackd0t). Happy Coding 😉
